---
layout: post
title:  "Tom Waits, Closing Time"
date:   2024-07-31 09:30:00 +0200
categories: music
---
## Tom Waits
### Closing Time

Originally, I was going to pick a thrash metal album for this article, but a sleepless night due to the sweltering heat left me craving something that would mellow me the fuck out. So, I ventured into a genre I wasn't very familiar with: blues. 

Eventually stumbling onto “Closing Time” by Tom Waits I sat down to start to listen while watching the sun rise. Which perfectly accompanied the opening track “Ol’55”, which sounded exactly like what I needed. Its melancholic yet sweet melody, paired with relatable lyrics about driving home after a one-night stand as the sun rises, evoked a mellifluous[^1] nostalgia.

The album features music that might not get stuck in your head but is made to be thoroughly enjoyable in the moment. The lyrics weave narratives without being overly complicated, a refreshing change from [yesterday's trip with MGMT](https://protobear.github.io/music/2024/07/30/MGMT.html). Maybe it's the sleep deprivation making me more open to actually feeling something, but the album effectively evokes the emotions Tom sings about. Albeit those emotions primarily being "somber" and "serene" but in a way that can uncloud you from intensely negative sentiment. Not all songs fit this mold; for instance, "Lonely" is literally about being lonely, with 27% of the lyrics consisting of the word "lonely." However, even here this track doesn't convey an overwhelming sadness but rather a low, persistent melancholy. Am I reading too much into it? Possibly. But then "Ice Cream Man" comes along, a more upbeat song about seduction, or so I assume. It's a bit quirky.

Overall, Tom Waits' "Closing Time" is a fantastic album filled with emotionally driven songs about life, desire, love, and loss. It's impressive how the album balances depth with a sense of not taking itself too seriously, both lyrically and musically.

---


[^1]: (of a sound) pleasingly smooth and musical to hear.  - I have no clue if I used this word correctly. But I'm rolling with it anyway. 
